\knowledge {game}[games|Games]{notion,index={game}}

\knowledge {timed game}[timed games]{notion, index={timed game}}
\knowledge{quantitative} [quantitative objective|Quantitative
objective|Quantitative objectives]{notion,index={objective!quantitative}}
\knowledge{qualitative} [qualitative objective|Qualitative
objective|Qualitative
objectives]{notion,index={objective!qualitative}}
\knowledge{objective}[Objectives|objectives]
{notion,index={objective}}
\knowledge{one-counter} [one-counter game|one-counter
games|One-counter games] {notion,index={one-counter game}}
\knowledge{parity}[parity game|parity objective|Parity|Parity
game|Parity objective|Parity games|Parity objectives|parity games]
{notion,index={parity}}
\knowledge{reachability}[reachability game|reachability
objective|Reachability|Reachability game|Reachability
objective|Reachability games|Reachability objectives|reachability
games]{notion,index={reachability}}
\knowledge{mean-payoff}[mean-payoff game|mean-payoff
objective|Mean-Payoff|Mean-Payoff game|Mean-Payoff
objective|Mean-Payoff games|Mean-Payoff objectives|mean-payoff games]
{notion,index={mean-payoff}}
\knowledge{safety}[safety game|safety
objective|Safety|Safety game|Safety
objective|Safety games|Safety objectives|safety games]
{notion,index={safety}}
\knowledge{arena}[Arenas|arenas]
{notion,index={arena}}
\knowledge{play}[Plays|plays]
{notion,index={play}}
\knowledge{winning region}[Winning regions|winning regions]
{notion,index={winning region}}
\knowledge{strategy}[Strategies|strategies]
{notion,index={strategy}}
\knowledge{memoryless}[memoryless strategy|memoryless
  strategies|Memoryless
  strategies]{notion,index={strategy!memoryless}}
\knowledge{finite-memory}[finite-memory strategy|finite-memory
  strategies|Finite-memory
  strategies]{notion,index={strategy!finite-memory}}
\knowledge{memory structure}{notion,index={memory structure}}